web_apps/pypi/README.md, before:

# Data-Driven Web App w/ Flask and SQLAlchemy

**Flask / Jinja / Bootstrap / SQLAlchemy / Alembic** \
*replica of https://pypi.org/*

## Setup

**Using container version of application**

a) OS without run of app:

```sh
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml build
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml up
sudo docker exec –it os zsh
```

b) OS wit run flask app:

```sh
# a) docker-compose.flask.yml - inheritance
# https://docs.docker.com/compose/extends/
docker-compose -f docker-compose.flask.yml build
docker-compose -f docker-compose.flask.yml up
sudo docker exec –it os zsh
```

**Using local version of application**

1) Clone the app project.
3) Install requirements using poetry. 2.1) Python

```shell
cd web_apps/pypi
poetry config virtualenvs.in-project true
poetry shell
poetry install
```

or to just install the added package(s) (and remove any dev packages that were
already installed if you killed it too late):

```
poetry install --no-dev
```

[Creating a Flask Project](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/pycharm/creating-flask-project.html)

2.2) JS

```shell
cd web_apps/pypi
npm i or npm ci
npm install --save-dev
```

To use local css and js of bootstrap /pypi_org/templates/shared/_layout.html

```shell
cd web_apps/pypi/pypi_org
ln -s ../node_modules
```

```html

<link rel="stylesheet"
      href="/node_modules/bootstrap/dist/css/bootstrap.css">
```

3) Run app:

3.1) Setup IDE project structure
<p align="center">
<img src="assets/pr-1.png" alt="Project Settings / Project" width="70%">
<img src="assets/pr-2.png" alt="Project Settings / Modules tree" width="70%">
<img src="assets/pr-3.png" alt="Project Settings / Modules env" width="70%">
<img src="assets/pr-4.png" alt="Project Settings / Modules tree" width="70%">
<img src="assets/pr-5.png" alt="Project Settings / Modules env" width="70%">
<img src="assets/pr-6.png" alt="Platform Settings / SDKs" width="70%">
</p>

3.2) Run app via command interface:
`cd <project_dir>`
`scripts/run_app.sh`

3.3) Run app via IDE in debug mode:

**NOTE:**
Need plugin for IDE:
[EnvFile](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/7861-envfile)
<p align="center">
<img src="assets/ide-1.png" alt="EnvFile plugin for IDE" width="70%">
</p>

a) Flask module
<p align="center">
<img src="assets/ide-2.png" alt="Flask module" width="70%">
</p>

b) Python script app.py
<p align="center">
<img src="assets/ide-3.png" alt="Python script" width="70%">
</p>

c) Flask framework \
[Run/Debug Configuration: Flask Server](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/pycharm/run-debug-configuration-flask-server.html)

<p align="center">
<img src="assets/ide-4.png" alt="Flask framework" width="70%">
</p>

4) Run scripts:

```sh
cd projects/web_apps/pypi
./scripts/run_app.sh
./scripts/run_data_insert.sh
...
```

5) DB

```sh
sudo yum install python3-devel mysql-devel
```

6) Alembic:

```sh
cd web_apps/pypi/
alembic init migrations/alembic
sudo dnf install -y python3-alembic
alembic current
# make model changes
# https://alembic.sqlalchemy.org/en/latest/autogenerate.html
alembic revision --autogenerate -m "Added last_updated column to Package cls"
# manual
alembic revision -m "new migration"

alembic upgrade head
alembic downgrade base
```

Alternative for `alembic upgrade head`:

```Python
# or https://alembic.sqlalchemy.org/en/latest/api/commands.html
from alembic.config import Config
from alembic import command

alembic_cfg = Config("/pypi_org/alembic.ini")
command.upgrade(alembic_cfg, "head")
```

7) Run app inside of docker container:
   7.1) Install docker:

```sh
# a) https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/
# e.g. https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/fedora/
sudo dnf config-manager --add-repo https://download.docker.com/linux/fedora/docker-ce.repo
sudo dnf install docker-ce docker-ce-cli containerd.io

# b) https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/linux-postinstall/
sudo groupadd docker
sudo usermod -aG docker $USER
newgrp docker
sudo systemctl enable docker.service
sudo systemctl enable containerd.service
# if err `connect EACCES /var/run/docker.sock`
sudo chmod o+rw /var/run/docker.sock

sudo systemctl start docker.service
sudo netstat -lntp | grep dockerd
```

7.2) Install docker-compose:

```sh
# https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/
# https://developer.fedoraproject.org/tools/docker/compose.html
# https://computingforgeeks.com/install-and-use-docker-compose-on-fedora/
```

7.3) Enable Command-line completion for docker:

```sh
#https://docs.docker.com/compose/completion/
# With oh-my-zsh shell
kate ~/.zshrc
# add to plugins=(... docker docker-compose)
source ~/.zshrc
```

7.4) Install GUI-For-Docker:

```sh
# https://appfleet.com/blog/top-gui-for-docker/
# e.g. https://dockstation.io/
# or use IDE plugins
# or https://github.com/jesseduffield/lazydocker#usage
```

7.5) Dockerfile or Docker Compose desc:
_Use long term support Ubuntu image: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases_

**Dockerfile**

```yml
# https://runnable.com/docker/python/dockerize-your-flask-application
# https://docs.docker.com/develop/develop-images/dockerfile_best-practices/
# https://runnable.com/docker/python/dockerize-your-flask-application
# https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-build-and-deploy-a-flask-application-using-docker-on-ubuntu-18-04#step-2-setting-up-docker
```

**Docker compose**

```sh
# https://runnable.com/docker/python/docker-compose-with-flask-apps
# https://docs.docker.com/compose/gettingstarted/
# https://www.tutorialworks.com/why-containers-stop/#what-if-my-docker-container-dies-immediately
tty=True
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml build
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml up
# to use increments
docker-compose -f docker-compose-new.yml build
docker-compose -f docker-compose-new.yml build --no-cache
docker-compose -f docker-compose-new.yml up
```

7.6) Connect to docker:

```sh
# https://phoenixnap.com/kb/how-to-ssh-into-docker-container
sudo docker exec –it os zsh
sudo docker attach os
```

7.7) Push / pull docker image:

```sh
docker logout
docker login --username=yourhubusername --email=youremail@company.com
docker images

# docker-compose.yml
docker image tag pypi-org_os:latest nestu/pypi_demo:core
REPOSITORY        TAG       IMAGE ID       CREATED          SIZE
nestu/pypi_demo   core      54f70da6fd51   15 minutes ago   968MB

docker image push nestu/pypi_demo:core

docker run --rm nestu/pypi_demo:core
docker pull nestu/pypi_demo:core
```

## Tips

1) Show project structure: \
   `tree -I .env`
2) Export requirements: \
   `poetry export -f requirements.txt --output requirements.txt --without-hashes`
3) IDE tab hack for html code:

    ```html
    div.container>div.row>div.col-md-4*3
    ```

   to

    ```html
    
    <div class="container">
        <div class="row">
            <div class="col-md-4"></div>
            <div class="col-md-4"></div>
            <div class="col-md-4"></div>
        </div>
    </div>```

4) **Errors:** \
   a) sqlite3.ProgrammingError in IDE debug mode
    ```
    sqlite3.ProgrammingError: SQLite objects created in a thread can only be used in that same thread. The object was created in thread id 9744 and this is thread id 12712.
    ```

   **Fix:** Play w/ `Allow parallel run` option for debug run config.

5) **IDE:**\

- debug flask, alembic and rest of the modules using python module with
  parameters;

6) **APP:**\

- In case flask app is executed in debug mode, then adding new model cls will
  automatically reflect the changes to DB without involving alembic migration
  revision.

7) **Utils:**\
   [appmap](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/16701-appmap) \
   AppMap is a free and open source visualization tool that allows you to see
   how your software works as it’s running.
   a) [Install AppMap for IDE](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/16701-appmap)
   \
   b) [Install the AppMap agent for Python](https://appland.com/docs/quickstart/pycharm/step-1)
   \

  ```sh
  npx @appland/appmap install-agent
  ? AppMap is about to be installed. Confirm the details below.
  Project type: poetry
  Project directory: projects/web_apps/pypi
  Git remote: origin    https://github.com/AleksNeStu/projects.git (fetch)
  Python version: 3.10.2
  Python package directory: projects/web_apps/pypi/.venv
  c) [Record AppMaps](https://appland.com/docs/quickstart/pycharm/step-3) \
    - [via tests](https://appland.com/docs/quickstart/pycharm/step-3-tests) \
    - [remote](https://appland.com/docs/quickstart/pycharm/step-3-remote) \
  ```   

## Tech-stack

<p align="center">
<img src="assets/diagram.png" alt="Stairway test">
</p>

> BE

- Python3


- [Jinja](https://github.com/pallets/jinja) \
  Jinja is a fast, expressive, extensible templating engine. Special
  placeholders in the template allow writing code similar to Python syntax.
  Then the template is passed data to render the final document. \
  [Jinja Templates](https://jinja.palletsprojects.com/en/3.0.x/templates/) \
  [jinja cheatsheet](https://devhints.io/jinja)


- [flask](https://github.com/pallets/flask) \
  Flask is a lightweight WSGI web application framework. It is designed to make
  getting started quick and easy, with the ability to scale up to complex
  applications. It began as a simple wrapper around Werkzeug and Jinja and has
  become one of the most popular Python web application frameworks. \
  Flask is better for quick development use cases and is perfect for
  prototyping. It is apt for developing microservices or serverless
  applications. \
  [Flask layout](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/2.0.x/tutorial/layout/) \
  [Advanced patterns for views and routing](http://exploreflask.com/en/latest/views.html) \
  `FLASK_DEBUG=1` - auto-reload the flask app when a code change happens
  `FLASK_DEBUG=0` - to debug via IDE instead of seeing stacktrace in browser \
  [Flask 2 time run issue](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/25504149/why-does-running-the-flask-dev-server-run-itself-twice) \
  [flask-mail](https://github.com/mattupstate/flask-mail) \
  [flask-sijax](https://github.com/spantaleev/flask-sijax) \
  [flask-admin](https://github.com/flask-admin/flask-admin) \
  [Flask-AppBuilder](https://github.com/dpgaspar/Flask-AppBuilder) \
  [Flask-Social](https://github.com/mattupstate/flask-social/) \
  [WTForms](https://github.com/wtforms/flask-wtf/) \
  [Flask-MongoEngine](https://github.com/MongoEngine/flask-mongoengine) \
  **API:**
  https://flask-restful.readthedocs.io/en/latest/
  https://flask-restx.readthedocs.io/en/latest/
  https://github.com/zalando/connexion
  [Flask-DebugToolbar](https://flask-debugtoolbar.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) \

- [Werkzeug](https://github.com/pallets/werkzeug) \
  Werkzeug is a comprehensive WSGI web application library. It began as a
  simple collection of various utilities for WSGI applications and has become
  one of the most advanced WSGI utility libraries.


- [sqlalchemy](https://github.com/sqlalchemy/sqlalchemy) \
  SQLAlchemy is the Python SQL toolkit and Object Relational Mapper that gives
  application developers the full power and flexibility of SQL. SQLAlchemy
  provides a full suite of well known enterprise-level persistence patterns,
  designed for efficient and high-performing database access, adapted into a
  simple and Pythonic domain language. \
  [SQLAlchemy Docs](https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/14/) \
  [Key Features of SQLAlchemy](https://www.sqlalchemy.org/features.html) \
  [Engine, Connection, Session](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/34322471/sqlalchemy-engine-connection-and-session-difference) \
  [sqlacodegen](https://github.com/agronholm/sqlacodegen) \
  This is a tool that reads the structure of an existing database and generates
  the appropriate SQLAlchemy model code, using the declarative style if
  possible. \
-
<p align="center">
<img src="assets/orm_core.png" alt="ORM and Core">
</p>

[Engine Configuration](https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/13/core/engines.html)
<p align="center">
<img src="assets/sqla_engine_arch.png" alt="Engine Configuration">
</p>

**ORM queries**
<p align="center">
<img src="assets/sql-1.png" alt="ORM queries" width="90%">
</p>

- Linux


- [Nginx / uWSGI]()

  <p>uWSGI is a software application that "aims at developing a full stack for building hosting services".[3] It is named after the Web Server Gateway Interface (WSGI), which was the first plugin supported by the project.[3]\
  <p>uwsgi (all lowercase) is the native binary protocol that uWSGI uses to communicate with other servers.[4] \
  <p> uWSGI is often used for serving Python web applications in conjunction with web servers such as Cherokee and Nginx, which offer direct support for uWSGI's native uwsgi protocol.[5] For example, data may flow like this: HTTP client ↔ Nginx ↔ uWSGI ↔ Python app.\
  <p> Nginx is a web server that can also be used as a reverse proxy, load balancer, mail proxy and HTTP cache.\
  [Deploy Flask app in Nginx using uWSGI — with architectural explanation](https://medium.com/@yekabotep/deploy-flask-app-in-nginx-using-uwsgi-with-architectural-explanation-2e24a41c030a)
  

  <p align="center">
        <img src="assets/uwsgi.jpeg" alt="uWSGI" width="90%">
  </p>

> FE

- [HTML/CSS]()

- [Cookies](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/storage/cookies/) \


- [Bootstrap](https://github.com/twbs/bootstrap) \
  Sleek, intuitive, and powerful front-end framework for faster and easier web
  development. \
  Quickly design and customize responsive mobile-first sites with Bootstrap,
  the world’s most popular front-end open source toolkit, featuring Sass
  variables and mixins, responsive grid system, extensive prebuilt components,
  and powerful JavaScript plugins. \
  [Get Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/5.1/getting-started/download/) \
  [Buttons](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.0/components/buttons/) \

  **Alternatives:**
    - https://github.com/semantic-org/semantic-ui
    -


- [JS]
    - [jQuery](https://jquery.com/) \
      jQuery is a fast, small, and feature-rich JavaScript library. It makes
      things like HTML document traversal and manipulation, event handling,
      animation, and Ajax much simpler with an easy-to-use API that works
      across a multitude of browsers. With a combination of versatility and
      extensibility, jQuery has changed the way that millions of people write
      JavaScript. \

    - [popper](https://popper.js.org/) \
      Popper.js is a positioning engine, its purpose is to calculate the
      position of an element to make it possible to position it near a given
      reference element. \
      Popper.js has zero dependencies. No jQuery, no LoDash, nothing. It's used
      by big companies like Twitter in Bootstrap v4, Microsoft in WebClipper
      and Atlassian in AtlasKit. \
      Some of the key points are:
        - Position elements keeping them in their original DOM context (doesn't
          mess with your DOM!);
        - Allows to export the computed information to integrate with React and
          other view libraries;
        - Supports Shadow DOM elements;
        - Completely customizable thanks to the modifiers based structure;

    - [Vue.js](https://github.com/vuejs/vue) \
      Vue.js is a progressive, incrementally-adoptable JavaScript framework for
      building UI on the web.

> DB

- [PostgreSQL](https://github.com/postgres/postgres) \
  This directory contains the source code distribution of the PostgreSQL
  database management system. \
  PostgreSQL is an advanced object-relational database management system that
  supports an extended subset of the SQL standard, including transactions,
  foreign keys, subqueries, triggers, user-defined types and functions. This
  distribution also contains C language bindings.


- [Migrations]()
  [alembic](https://github.com/sqlalchemy/alembic) \


- [Query language]()

## Topics

1) Setup and tools
2) Introduction to Flask web framework
3) Creating our first site
4) HTML templates
5) Mapping URLs to methods
6) Bootstrap front-end framework
7) Data access with SQLAlchemy ORM
8) Database migrations with Alembic
9) User input with HTML forms
10) Server and client validation
11) Testing
    [pytest-cov](https://pytest-cov.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) \
    [WebTest](https://docs.pylonsproject.org/projects/webtest/en/latest/) \
    [pytest-clarity](https://github.com/darrenburns/pytest-clarity) \
    [Testing Flask Applications with Pytest](https://testdriven.io/blog/flask-pytest/)
    \
    [Flask-Testing](https://pythonhosted.org/Flask-Testing/) \
12) Deployment
13) MongoDB version

## Requirements

1) **Python 3.x**
2) **poetry** - Dependency Management for Python.

# Description

<p align="center">
<img src="assets/model-view-controller.png" alt="MVC (Model-View-Controller)">
</p>

**MVC (Model-View-Controller)** is a pattern in software design commonly used
to implement user interfaces, data, and controlling logic. It emphasizes a
separation between the software’s business logic and display. This "separation
of concerns" provides for a better division of labor and improved maintenance.\

**Building Blocks of Flask**

1) **Routes:** Map URL patterns to views app.route maps URLs to views with a
   unique url pattern, optional HTTP verb, and route data.


2) **Controllers (View methods):** Process request


3) **Views (Templates):** Dynamic HTML Data passed to templates are keyword
   arguments. Can include data and methods.


4) **Models:** Data and behavior passed to view


5) **Static content:** Rich support for cached assets

   Static files will automatically be served from /static/...


6) **Configuration:** Dev, test, prod configs

Commit message:

Update README.md in scope docker stuff

web_apps/pypi/README.md, after:

# Data-Driven Web App w/ Flask and SQLAlchemy

**Flask / Jinja / Bootstrap / SQLAlchemy / Alembic** \
*replica of https://pypi.org/*

## Setup

**Using container version of application**

a) OS without run of app:

```sh
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml build
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml up
sudo docker exec –it os zsh
```

b) OS wit run flask app:

```sh
# a) docker-compose.flask.yml - inheritance
# https://docs.docker.com/compose/extends/
docker-compose -f docker-compose.flask.yml build
docker-compose -f docker-compose.flask.yml up
sudo docker exec –it os zsh
```

**NOTES:**
- Dirs desc:
docker `/tmp/pypi` -> host `projects/web_apps/pypi`
docker `/tmp/pypi_docker` -> `projects/web_apps/pypi_docker` - not git dir (
   for docker app code on gly changes)
docker `pypi` -> docker `/tmp/pypi_docker` - symlink

**Using local version of application**

1) Clone the app project.
3) Install requirements using poetry. 2.1) Python

```shell
cd web_apps/pypi
poetry config virtualenvs.in-project true
poetry shell
poetry install
```

or to just install the added package(s) (and remove any dev packages that were
already installed if you killed it too late):

```
poetry install --no-dev
```

[Creating a Flask Project](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/pycharm/creating-flask-project.html)

2.2) JS

```shell
cd web_apps/pypi
npm i or npm ci
npm install --save-dev
```

To use local css and js of bootstrap /pypi_org/templates/shared/_layout.html

```shell
cd web_apps/pypi/pypi_org
ln -s ../node_modules
```

```html

<link rel="stylesheet"
      href="/node_modules/bootstrap/dist/css/bootstrap.css">
```

3) Run app:

3.1) Setup IDE project structure
<p align="center">
<img src="assets/pr-1.png" alt="Project Settings / Project" width="70%">
<img src="assets/pr-2.png" alt="Project Settings / Modules tree" width="70%">
<img src="assets/pr-3.png" alt="Project Settings / Modules env" width="70%">
<img src="assets/pr-4.png" alt="Project Settings / Modules tree" width="70%">
<img src="assets/pr-5.png" alt="Project Settings / Modules env" width="70%">
<img src="assets/pr-6.png" alt="Platform Settings / SDKs" width="70%">
</p>

3.2) Run app via command interface:
`cd <project_dir>`
`scripts/run_app.sh`

3.3) Run app via IDE in debug mode:

**NOTE:**
Need plugin for IDE:
[EnvFile](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/7861-envfile)
<p align="center">
<img src="assets/ide-1.png" alt="EnvFile plugin for IDE" width="70%">
</p>

a) Flask module
<p align="center">
<img src="assets/ide-2.png" alt="Flask module" width="70%">
</p>

b) Python script app.py
<p align="center">
<img src="assets/ide-3.png" alt="Python script" width="70%">
</p>

c) Flask framework \
[Run/Debug Configuration: Flask Server](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/pycharm/run-debug-configuration-flask-server.html)

<p align="center">
<img src="assets/ide-4.png" alt="Flask framework" width="70%">
</p>

4) Run scripts:

```sh
cd projects/web_apps/pypi
./scripts/run_app.sh
./scripts/run_data_insert.sh
...
```

5) DB

```sh
sudo yum install python3-devel mysql-devel
```

6) Alembic:

```sh
cd web_apps/pypi/
alembic init migrations/alembic
sudo dnf install -y python3-alembic
alembic current
# make model changes
# https://alembic.sqlalchemy.org/en/latest/autogenerate.html
alembic revision --autogenerate -m "Added last_updated column to Package cls"
# manual
alembic revision -m "new migration"

alembic upgrade head
alembic downgrade base
```

Alternative for `alembic upgrade head`:

```Python
# or https://alembic.sqlalchemy.org/en/latest/api/commands.html
from alembic.config import Config
from alembic import command

alembic_cfg = Config("/pypi_org/alembic.ini")
command.upgrade(alembic_cfg, "head")
```

7) Run app inside of docker container:
   7.1) Install docker:

```sh
# a) https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/
# e.g. https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/fedora/
sudo dnf config-manager --add-repo https://download.docker.com/linux/fedora/docker-ce.repo
sudo dnf install docker-ce docker-ce-cli containerd.io

# b) https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/linux-postinstall/
sudo groupadd docker
sudo usermod -aG docker $USER
newgrp docker
sudo systemctl enable docker.service
sudo systemctl enable containerd.service
# if err `connect EACCES /var/run/docker.sock`
sudo chmod o+rw /var/run/docker.sock

sudo systemctl start docker.service
sudo netstat -lntp | grep dockerd
```

7.2) Install docker-compose:

```sh
# https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/
# https://developer.fedoraproject.org/tools/docker/compose.html
# https://computingforgeeks.com/install-and-use-docker-compose-on-fedora/
```

7.3) Enable Command-line completion for docker:

```sh
#https://docs.docker.com/compose/completion/
# With oh-my-zsh shell
kate ~/.zshrc
# add to plugins=(... docker docker-compose)
source ~/.zshrc
```

7.4) Install GUI-For-Docker:

```sh
# https://appfleet.com/blog/top-gui-for-docker/
# e.g. https://dockstation.io/
# or use IDE plugins
# or https://github.com/jesseduffield/lazydocker#usage
```

7.5) Dockerfile or Docker Compose desc:
_Use long term support Ubuntu image: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases_

**Dockerfile**

```yml
# https://runnable.com/docker/python/dockerize-your-flask-application
# https://docs.docker.com/develop/develop-images/dockerfile_best-practices/
# https://runnable.com/docker/python/dockerize-your-flask-application
# https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-build-and-deploy-a-flask-application-using-docker-on-ubuntu-18-04#step-2-setting-up-docker
```

**Docker compose**

```sh
# https://runnable.com/docker/python/docker-compose-with-flask-apps
# https://docs.docker.com/compose/gettingstarted/
# https://www.tutorialworks.com/why-containers-stop/#what-if-my-docker-container-dies-immediately
tty=True
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml build
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml up
# to use increments
docker-compose -f docker-compose-new.yml build
docker-compose -f docker-compose-new.yml build --no-cache
docker-compose -f docker-compose-new.yml up
```

7.6) Connect to docker:

```sh
# https://phoenixnap.com/kb/how-to-ssh-into-docker-container
sudo docker exec –it os zsh
sudo docker attach os
```

7.7) Push / pull docker image:

```sh
docker logout
docker login --username=yourhubusername --email=youremail@company.com
docker images

# docker-compose.yml
docker image tag pypi-org_os:latest nestu/pypi_demo:core
REPOSITORY        TAG       IMAGE ID       CREATED          SIZE
nestu/pypi_demo   core      54f70da6fd51   15 minutes ago   968MB

docker image push nestu/pypi_demo:core

docker run --rm nestu/pypi_demo:core
docker pull nestu/pypi_demo:core
```

7.8) Non root user:
https://code.visualstudio.com/remote/advancedcontainers/add-nonroot-user
https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-share-data-between-the-docker-container-and-the-host
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/27701930/how-to-add-users-to-docker-container

## Tips

1) Show project structure: \
   `tree -I .env`
2) Export requirements: \
   `poetry export -f requirements.txt --output requirements.txt --without-hashes`
3) IDE tab hack for html code:

    ```html
    div.container>div.row>div.col-md-4*3
    ```

   to

    ```html
    
    <div class="container">
        <div class="row">
            <div class="col-md-4"></div>
            <div class="col-md-4"></div>
            <div class="col-md-4"></div>
        </div>
    </div>```

4) **Errors:** \
   a) sqlite3.ProgrammingError in IDE debug mode
    ```
    sqlite3.ProgrammingError: SQLite objects created in a thread can only be used in that same thread. The object was created in thread id 9744 and this is thread id 12712.
    ```

   **Fix:** Play w/ `Allow parallel run` option for debug run config.

5) **IDE:**\

- debug flask, alembic and rest of the modules using python module with
  parameters;

6) **APP:**\

- In case flask app is executed in debug mode, then adding new model cls will
  automatically reflect the changes to DB without involving alembic migration
  revision.

7) **Utils:**\
   [appmap](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/16701-appmap) \
   AppMap is a free and open source visualization tool that allows you to see
   how your software works as it’s running.
   a) [Install AppMap for IDE](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/16701-appmap)
   \
   b) [Install the AppMap agent for Python](https://appland.com/docs/quickstart/pycharm/step-1)
   \

  ```sh
  npx @appland/appmap install-agent
  ? AppMap is about to be installed. Confirm the details below.
  Project type: poetry
  Project directory: projects/web_apps/pypi
  Git remote: origin    https://github.com/AleksNeStu/projects.git (fetch)
  Python version: 3.10.2
  Python package directory: projects/web_apps/pypi/.venv
  c) [Record AppMaps](https://appland.com/docs/quickstart/pycharm/step-3) \
    - [via tests](https://appland.com/docs/quickstart/pycharm/step-3-tests) \
    - [remote](https://appland.com/docs/quickstart/pycharm/step-3-remote) \
  ```   

## Tech-stack

<p align="center">
<img src="assets/diagram.png" alt="Stairway test">
</p>

> BE

- Python3


- [Jinja](https://github.com/pallets/jinja) \
  Jinja is a fast, expressive, extensible templating engine. Special
  placeholders in the template allow writing code similar to Python syntax.
  Then the template is passed data to render the final document. \
  [Jinja Templates](https://jinja.palletsprojects.com/en/3.0.x/templates/) \
  [jinja cheatsheet](https://devhints.io/jinja)


- [flask](https://github.com/pallets/flask) \
  Flask is a lightweight WSGI web application framework. It is designed to make
  getting started quick and easy, with the ability to scale up to complex
  applications. It began as a simple wrapper around Werkzeug and Jinja and has
  become one of the most popular Python web application frameworks. \
  Flask is better for quick development use cases and is perfect for
  prototyping. It is apt for developing microservices or serverless
  applications. \
  [Flask layout](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/2.0.x/tutorial/layout/) \
  [Advanced patterns for views and routing](http://exploreflask.com/en/latest/views.html) \
  `FLASK_DEBUG=1` - auto-reload the flask app when a code change happens
  `FLASK_DEBUG=0` - to debug via IDE instead of seeing stacktrace in browser \
  [Flask 2 time run issue](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/25504149/why-does-running-the-flask-dev-server-run-itself-twice) \
  [flask-mail](https://github.com/mattupstate/flask-mail) \
  [flask-sijax](https://github.com/spantaleev/flask-sijax) \
  [flask-admin](https://github.com/flask-admin/flask-admin) \
  [Flask-AppBuilder](https://github.com/dpgaspar/Flask-AppBuilder) \
  [Flask-Social](https://github.com/mattupstate/flask-social/) \
  [WTForms](https://github.com/wtforms/flask-wtf/) \
  [Flask-MongoEngine](https://github.com/MongoEngine/flask-mongoengine) \
  **API:**
  https://flask-restful.readthedocs.io/en/latest/
  https://flask-restx.readthedocs.io/en/latest/
  https://github.com/zalando/connexion
  [Flask-DebugToolbar](https://flask-debugtoolbar.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) \

- [Werkzeug](https://github.com/pallets/werkzeug) \
  Werkzeug is a comprehensive WSGI web application library. It began as a
  simple collection of various utilities for WSGI applications and has become
  one of the most advanced WSGI utility libraries.


- [sqlalchemy](https://github.com/sqlalchemy/sqlalchemy) \
  SQLAlchemy is the Python SQL toolkit and Object Relational Mapper that gives
  application developers the full power and flexibility of SQL. SQLAlchemy
  provides a full suite of well known enterprise-level persistence patterns,
  designed for efficient and high-performing database access, adapted into a
  simple and Pythonic domain language. \
  [SQLAlchemy Docs](https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/14/) \
  [Key Features of SQLAlchemy](https://www.sqlalchemy.org/features.html) \
  [Engine, Connection, Session](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/34322471/sqlalchemy-engine-connection-and-session-difference) \
  [sqlacodegen](https://github.com/agronholm/sqlacodegen) \
  This is a tool that reads the structure of an existing database and generates
  the appropriate SQLAlchemy model code, using the declarative style if
  possible. \
-
<p align="center">
<img src="assets/orm_core.png" alt="ORM and Core">
</p>

[Engine Configuration](https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/13/core/engines.html)
<p align="center">
<img src="assets/sqla_engine_arch.png" alt="Engine Configuration">
</p>

**ORM queries**
<p align="center">
<img src="assets/sql-1.png" alt="ORM queries" width="90%">
</p>

- Linux


- [Nginx / uWSGI]()

  <p>uWSGI is a software application that "aims at developing a full stack for building hosting services".[3] It is named after the Web Server Gateway Interface (WSGI), which was the first plugin supported by the project.[3]\
  <p>uwsgi (all lowercase) is the native binary protocol that uWSGI uses to communicate with other servers.[4] \
  <p> uWSGI is often used for serving Python web applications in conjunction with web servers such as Cherokee and Nginx, which offer direct support for uWSGI's native uwsgi protocol.[5] For example, data may flow like this: HTTP client ↔ Nginx ↔ uWSGI ↔ Python app.\
  <p> Nginx is a web server that can also be used as a reverse proxy, load balancer, mail proxy and HTTP cache.\
  [Deploy Flask app in Nginx using uWSGI — with architectural explanation](https://medium.com/@yekabotep/deploy-flask-app-in-nginx-using-uwsgi-with-architectural-explanation-2e24a41c030a)
  [How To Serve Flask Applications with uWSGI and Nginx on Ubuntu](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-serve-flask-applications-with-uswgi-and-nginx-on-ubuntu-18-04) \
  [Developing a Flask API in a Docker container with uWSGI and NGINX](https://gabimelo.medium.com/developing-a-flask-api-in-a-docker-container-with-uwsgi-and-nginx-e089e43ed90e) \
  

  <p align="center">
        <img src="assets/uwsgi.jpeg" alt="uWSGI" width="90%">
  </p>

> FE

- [HTML/CSS]()

- [Cookies](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/storage/cookies/) \


- [Bootstrap](https://github.com/twbs/bootstrap) \
  Sleek, intuitive, and powerful front-end framework for faster and easier web
  development. \
  Quickly design and customize responsive mobile-first sites with Bootstrap,
  the world’s most popular front-end open source toolkit, featuring Sass
  variables and mixins, responsive grid system, extensive prebuilt components,
  and powerful JavaScript plugins. \
  [Get Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/5.1/getting-started/download/) \
  [Buttons](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.0/components/buttons/) \

  **Alternatives:**
    - https://github.com/semantic-org/semantic-ui
    -


- [JS]
    - [jQuery](https://jquery.com/) \
      jQuery is a fast, small, and feature-rich JavaScript library. It makes
      things like HTML document traversal and manipulation, event handling,
      animation, and Ajax much simpler with an easy-to-use API that works
      across a multitude of browsers. With a combination of versatility and
      extensibility, jQuery has changed the way that millions of people write
      JavaScript. \

    - [popper](https://popper.js.org/) \
      Popper.js is a positioning engine, its purpose is to calculate the
      position of an element to make it possible to position it near a given
      reference element. \
      Popper.js has zero dependencies. No jQuery, no LoDash, nothing. It's used
      by big companies like Twitter in Bootstrap v4, Microsoft in WebClipper
      and Atlassian in AtlasKit. \
      Some of the key points are:
        - Position elements keeping them in their original DOM context (doesn't
          mess with your DOM!);
        - Allows to export the computed information to integrate with React and
          other view libraries;
        - Supports Shadow DOM elements;
        - Completely customizable thanks to the modifiers based structure;

    - [Vue.js](https://github.com/vuejs/vue) \
      Vue.js is a progressive, incrementally-adoptable JavaScript framework for
      building UI on the web.

> DB

- [PostgreSQL](https://github.com/postgres/postgres) \
  This directory contains the source code distribution of the PostgreSQL
  database management system. \
  PostgreSQL is an advanced object-relational database management system that
  supports an extended subset of the SQL standard, including transactions,
  foreign keys, subqueries, triggers, user-defined types and functions. This
  distribution also contains C language bindings.


- [Migrations]()
  [alembic](https://github.com/sqlalchemy/alembic) \


- [Query language]()

## Topics

1) Setup and tools
2) Introduction to Flask web framework
3) Creating our first site
4) HTML templates
5) Mapping URLs to methods
6) Bootstrap front-end framework
7) Data access with SQLAlchemy ORM
8) Database migrations with Alembic
9) User input with HTML forms
10) Server and client validation
11) Testing
    [pytest-cov](https://pytest-cov.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) \
    [WebTest](https://docs.pylonsproject.org/projects/webtest/en/latest/) \
    [pytest-clarity](https://github.com/darrenburns/pytest-clarity) \
    [Testing Flask Applications with Pytest](https://testdriven.io/blog/flask-pytest/)
    \
    [Flask-Testing](https://pythonhosted.org/Flask-Testing/) \
12) Deployment
13) MongoDB version

## Requirements

1) **Python 3.x**
2) **poetry** - Dependency Management for Python.

# Description

<p align="center">
<img src="assets/model-view-controller.png" alt="MVC (Model-View-Controller)">
</p>

**MVC (Model-View-Controller)** is a pattern in software design commonly used
to implement user interfaces, data, and controlling logic. It emphasizes a
separation between the software’s business logic and display. This "separation
of concerns" provides for a better division of labor and improved maintenance.\

**Building Blocks of Flask**

1) **Routes:** Map URL patterns to views app.route maps URLs to views with a
   unique url pattern, optional HTTP verb, and route data.


2) **Controllers (View methods):** Process request


3) **Views (Templates):** Dynamic HTML Data passed to templates are keyword
   arguments. Can include data and methods.


4) **Models:** Data and behavior passed to view


5) **Static content:** Rich support for cached assets

   Static files will automatically be served from /static/...


6) **Configuration:** Dev, test, prod configs
