LIST.MD, before:

# A
- **[allegro-pl-rest-api](https://github.com/allegro/allegro-api)**: API client for allegro.pl
- **[Apache Cassandra](https://github.com/apache/cassandra)** - Apache Cassandra is a highly-scalable partitioned row store. Rows are organized into tables with a required primary key.
- **[apscheduler](https://github.com/agronholm/apscheduler)** - Advanced Python Scheduler (APScheduler) is a task scheduler and task queue system for Python. It can be used solely as a job queuing system if you have no need for task scheduling. It scales both up and down, and is suitable for both trivial, single-process use cases as well as large deployments spanning multiple nodes.


# B
- **[BSON](https://bsonspec.org/)** - BSON is a specification for a rich set of scalar types (int32, int64, decimal, date, etc.) plus containers (object a.k.a. a map, and array) as they might appear in a byte stream. There is no "native" string form of BSON; it is a byte[] spec.
- **[bulma](https://github.com/jgthms/bulma)** - Bulma is a CSS framework. As such, the sole output is a single CSS file. Bulma can be considered "environment agnostic": it's just the style layer on top of the logic.
- [bootstrap](https://github.com/twbs/bootstrap) - The most popular HTML, CSS, and JavaScript framework for developing responsive, mobile first projects on the web.


# C
- **[codetiming](https://github.com/realpython/codetiming)** - A flexible, customizable timer for your Python code
- **[celery](https://github.com/celery/celery)** - Task queues are used as a mechanism to distribute work across threads or machines.
- **[CFFI](https://cffi.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)** - C Foreign Function Interface for Python. Interact with almost any C code from Python, based on C-like declarations that you can often copy-paste from header files or documentation.
- **[cookiecutter](https://github.com/cookiecutter/cookiecutter)** - A command-line utility that creates projects from cookiecutters (project templates), e.g. creating a Python package project from a Python package project template.
- **[cookiecutter-django](https://github.com/cookiecutter/cookiecutter-django)** - Cookiecutter Django is a framework for jumpstarting production-ready Django projects quickly.
- ** [django-allauth](https://github.com/pennersr/django-allauth)** - Integrated set of Django applications addressing authentication, registration, account management as well as 3rd party (social) account authentication.

# D
- **[django](https://github.com/django/django)** - Django is a high-level Python web framework that encourages rapid development and clean, pragmatic design. Thanks for checking it out.
-[ **django-environ](https://github.com/joke2k/django-environ)** - django-environ is the Python package that allows you to use Twelve-factor methodology to configure your Django application with environment variables.
- **[django-anymail](https://github.com/anymail/django-anymail)** - Django email backends and webhooks for Amazon SES, Mailgun, Mailjet, Postmark, Postal, SendGrid, Sendinblue, SparkPost and more
- **[docker-compose](https://github.com/docker/compose)** - Docker Compose is a tool for running multi-container applications on Docker defined using the Compose file format.
- **[django-celery-beat](https://github.com/celery/django-celery-beat)** - Celery Periodic Tasks backed by the Django ORM. The periodic tasks can be managed from the Django Admin interface, where you can create, edit and delete periodic tasks and how often they should run.
- **[direnv](https://github.com/direnv/direnv)** - direnv is an extension for your shell. It augments existing shells with a new feature that can load and unload environment variables depending on the current directory.

# E
- [eventlet](http://eventlet.net/) - Eventlet is a concurrent networking library for Python that allows you to change how you run your code, not how you write it. https://github.com/eventlet/eventlet
- **[Elasticsearch](https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch)** - Elasticsearch is the distributed, RESTful search and analytics engine at the heart of the Elastic Stack. You can use Elasticsearch to store, search, and manage data for: Logs, Metrics, A search backend, Application monitoring, 
Endpoint security

# F
- **[flask-caching](https://github.m/pallets-eco/flask-caching)** - A fork of the Flask-cache extension which adds easy cache support to Flask.
- **[flask](https://github.com/pallets/flask)** - Flask is a lightweight WSGI web application framework. It is designed to make getting started quick and easy, with the ability to scale up to complex applications. It began as a simple wrapper around Werkzeug and Jinja and has become one of the most popular Python web application frameworks.



# G
- **[GridFS](https://github.com/mongodb/specifications/blob/master/source/gridfs/gridfs-spec.rst/)** - GridFS is a convention drivers use to store and retrieve BSON binary data (type “\x05”) that exceeds MongoDB’s BSON-document size limit of 16 MiB. When this data, called a user file, is written to the system, GridFS divides the file into chunks that are stored as distinct documents in a chunks collection. To retrieve a stored file, GridFS locates and returns all of its component chunks. Internally, GridFS creates a files collection document for each stored file. Files collection documents hold information about stored files, and they are stored in a files collection.
- **[gevent](http://www.gevent.org/)** - gevent is a coroutine -based Python networking library that uses greenlet to provide a high-level synchronous API on top of the libev or libuv event loop. https://github.com/gevent/gevent
- **[greenlet](https://greenlet.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)** - greenlets are lightweight coroutines for in-process sequential concurrent programming. greenlets can be used on their own, but they are frequently used with frameworks such as gevent to provide higher-level abstractions and asynchronous I/O. https://github.com/python-greenlet/greenlet
- **[GitHub Search API](https://docs.github.com/en/rest/search)** - The Search API helps you search for the specific item you want to find. For example, you can find a user or a specific file in a repository.
- **[GitHub CLI](https://github.com/cli/cli)** - gh is GitHub on the command line. It brings pull requests, issues, and other GitHub concepts to the terminal next to where you are already working with git and your code.


# H

# I

# J
- **[JSON](https://www.json.org/json-en.html)** - JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) is a lightweight data-interchange format. It is easy for humans to read and write.

# K

# L
- **[litecli](https://github.com/dbcli/litecli)** - A command-line client for SQLite databases that has auto-completion and syntax highlighting.
- **[librabbitmq](https://github.com/celery/librabbitmq)** - Python AMQP Client using the rabbitmq-c library. Python bindings to the RabbitMQ C-library rabbitmq-c. Supported by Kombu and Celery.
  Python bindings to the RabbitMQ C-library rabbitmq-c. Supported by Kombu and Celery.
- [LRU cache](https://www.educative.io/m/implement-least-recently-used-cache) - Least Recently Used (LRU) is a common caching strategy. It defines the policy to evict elements from the cache to make room for new elements when the cache is full, meaning it discards the least recently used items first.

# M
- **[mongita](https://github.com/scottrogowski/mongita)** - Mongita is a lightweight embedded document database that implements a commonly-used subset of the MongoDB/PyMongo interface. Mongita differs from MongoDB in that instead of being a server, Mongita is a self-contained Python library. Mongita can be configured to store its documents either on disk or in memory.
- **[mycli](https://github.com/dbcli/mycli)** - A command line client for MySQL that can do auto-completion and syntax highlighting.
- **[mongo-express](https://github.com/mongo-express/mongo-express)** - Web-based MongoDB admin interface written with Node.js, Express and Bootstrap3
- **[Memcached](https://github.com/memcached/memcached)** - Memcached is a high performance multithreaded event-based key/value cache store intended to be used in a distributed system.
- **[MongoDB](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo)** - MongoDB is a source-available cross-platform document-oriented database program. Classified as a NoSQL database program, MongoDB uses JSON-like documents with optional schemas.

# N

# O
- [optparse](https://docs.python.org/3/library/optparse.html) - optparse is a more convenient, flexible, and powerful library for parsing command-line options than the old getopt module. 



# P
- **[pipreqs](https://github.com/bndr/pipreqs)** - Pip requirements.txt generator based on imports in project.
- **[pipdeptree](https://github.com/tox-dev/pipdeptree)** - is a command line utility for displaying the installed python packages in form of a dependency tree.
- **[PhantomJS](https://github.com/ariya/phantomjs)** - PhantomJS is a headless Webkit, which has a number of uses. In this example, we’ll be using it, in conjunction with Selenium WebDriver, for conducting basic system tests directly from the command line. Since PhantomJS eliminates the need for a graphical browser, tests run much faster.
- **[pymongo](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo-python-driver)** - The PyMongo distribution contains tools for interacting with MongoDB database from Python. The bson package is an implementation of the BSON format for Python. The pymongo package is a native Python driver for MongoDB. The gridfs package is a gridfs implementation on top of pymongo. PyMongo supports MongoDB 3.6, 4.0, 4.2, 4.4, 5.0, and 6.0.
- **[python-dotenv](https://github.com/theskumar/python-dotenv)** - Python-dotenv reads key-value pairs from a .env file and can set them as environment variables. It helps in the development of applications following the 12-factor principles. By default, load_dotenv doesn't override existing environment variables.
- **[python-humanfriendly](https://github.com/xolox/python-humanfriendly)** - humanfriendly: Human friendly input/output in Python
- **[Pyramid](https://github.com/Pylons/pyramid)** - Pyramid is a small, fast, down-to-earth, open source Python web framework. It makes real-world web application development and deployment more fun, more predictable, and more productive.
- **[Pylons](https://github.com/Pylons/deform)** - Deform is a Python form library for generating HTML forms on the server side. Date and time picking widgets, rich text editors, forms with dynamically added and removed items and a few other complex use cases are supported out of the box. Deform integrates with the Pyramid web framework and several other web frameworks. Deform comes with Chameleon templates and Bootstrap 3 styling.
- **[pythonanywhere](https://www.pythonanywhere.com/)** - Just write your application. No need to configure or maintain a web server — everything is set up and ready to go.
- **[pre-commit](https://github.com/pre-commit/pre-commit)** - A framework for managing and maintaining multi-language pre-commit hooks.
- **[patch-env](https://github.com/caricalabs/patch-env)** - patch_env - Patch os.environ with dynamic values when the interpreter starts
- **[python-progressbar](https://github.com/NiltonVolpato/python-progressbar)** - A text progress bar is typically used to display the progress of a long running operation, providing a visual cue that processing is underway.
- **[pandas](https://github.com/pandas-dev/pandas)** - pandas: powerful Python data analysis toolkit

# Q

# R
- [**redis**](https://github.com/redis/redis) - Redis is often referred to as a data structures server. What this means is that Redis provides access to mutable data structures via a set of commands, which are sent using a server-client model with TCP sockets and a simple protocol. So different processes can query and modify the same data structures in a shared way. [Redis data types](https://redis.io/docs/).
- **[rabbitmq](https://github.com/rabbitmq)** - RabbitMQ is a feature rich, multi-protocol messaging and streaming broker. It supports: AMQP 0-9-1
AMQP 1.0, RabbitMQ Stream Protocol, MQTT 3.1.1, STOMP 1.0 through 1.2.
- **[rabbitmq](https://github.com/jbg/rabbitmq)** - Python bindings to librabbitmq using CFFI.


# S
- **[spynner](https://github.com/makinacorpus/spynner)** - Spynner is a stateful programmatic web browser module for Python. It is based upon PyQT and WebKit. It supports Javascript, AJAX, and every other technology that !WebKit is able to handle (Flash, SVG, ...). Spynner takes advantage of JQuery. a powerful Javascript library that makes the interaction with pages and event simulation really easy. Using Spynner you would able to simulate a web browser with no GUI (though a browsing window can be opened for debugging purposes), so it may be used to implement crawlers or acceptance testing tools.
- **[systemd](https://github.com/systemd/systemd)** - systemd is a suite of basic building blocks for a Linux system. It provides a system and service manager that runs as PID 1 and starts the rest of the system. systemd provides aggressive parallelization capabilities, uses socket and D-Bus activation for starting services, offers on-demand starting of daemons, keeps track of processes using Linux control groups, maintains mount and automount points, and implements an elaborate transactional dependency-based service control logic. systemd supports SysV and LSB init scripts and works as a replacement for sysvinit.
- **[supervisor](https://github.com/Supervisor/supervisor)** - Supervisor is a client/server system that allows its users to control a number of processes on UNIX-like operating systems. Supervisor is intended to work on Python 3 version 3.4 or later and on Python 2 version 2.7.
- **[sqlalchemy](https://github.com/sqlalchemy/sqlalchemy)** - SQLAlchemy is the Python SQL toolkit and Object Relational Mapper that gives application developers the full power and flexibility of SQL. SQLAlchemy provides a full suite of well known enterprise-level persistence patterns, designed for efficient and high-performing database access, adapted into a simple and Pythonic domain language.


# T
- **[tensorflow](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow)** - TensorFlow is an end-to-end open source platform for machine learning. TensorFlow was originally developed by researchers and engineers working on the Google Brain team within Google's Machine Intelligence Research organization to conduct machine learning and deep neural networks research.
- **[Tornado](https://github.com/tornadoweb/tornado/tree/stable)** - Tornado is a Python web framework and asynchronous networking library, originally developed at FriendFeed. By using non-blocking network I/O, Tornado can scale to tens of thousands of open connections, making it ideal for long polling, WebSockets, and other applications that require a long-lived connection to each user.
- [**12factorAPP**](https://12factor.net/) - I. Codebase   II. Dependencies   III. Config IV. Backing services  V. Build, release, run  VI. Processes  VII. Port binding  VIII. Concurrency IX. Disposability
  X. Dev/prod parity   XI. Logs   XII. Admin processes

# U

# V

# W
- **[webbrowser](https://docs.python.org/3/library/webbrowser.html#module-webbrowser)** - module provides a high-level interface to allow displaying web-based documents to users. Under most circumstances, simply calling the open() function from this module will do the right thing.
- **[Webkit](https://webkit.org/)** - WebKit is the web browser engine used by Safari, Mail, App Store, and many other apps on macOS, iOS, and Linux.
- **[web2py](https://github.com/web2py/web2py)** - web2py is a free open source full-stack framework for rapid development of fast, scalable, secure and portable database-driven web-based applications.

# X

# Y
- **[yolk](https://github.com/cakebread/yolk)** - Command-line tool for querying PyPI and Python packages installed on your system
- **[yolk3k](https://github.com/myint/yolk)**: yolk3k is a fork of the original yolk. yolk3k add Python 3 support (while maintaining Python 2 support). It also adds additional features.

# Z

Commit message:

Refactor data/migrations/001_alembic_quickstart and add deps related. Update README.MD

LIST.MD, after:

# A
- **[allegro-pl-rest-api](https://github.com/allegro/allegro-api)**: API client for allegro.pl
- **[Apache Cassandra](https://github.com/apache/cassandra)** - Apache Cassandra is a highly-scalable partitioned row store. Rows are organized into tables with a required primary key.
- **[apscheduler](https://github.com/agronholm/apscheduler)** - Advanced Python Scheduler (APScheduler) is a task scheduler and task queue system for Python. It can be used solely as a job queuing system if you have no need for task scheduling. It scales both up and down, and is suitable for both trivial, single-process use cases as well as large deployments spanning multiple nodes.
- **[asyncpg](https://github.com/MagicStack/asyncpg)** - asyncpg is a database interface library designed specifically for PostgreSQL and Python/asyncio. asyncpg is an efficient, clean implementation of PostgreSQL server binary protocol for use with Python's asyncio framework. You can read more about asyncpg in an introductory blog post.
- **[alembic](https://github.com/sqlalchemy/alembic)** - Alembic is a database migrations tool written by the author of SQLAlchemy. A migrations tool offers the following functionality:
- **[aiohttp](https://github.com/aio-libs/aiohttp)** - Async http client/server framework. Supports both client and server side of HTTP protocol. Supports both client and server Web-Sockets out-of-the-box and avoids Callback Hell. Provides Web-server with middlewares and plugable routing.

# B
- **[BSON](https://bsonspec.org/)** - BSON is a specification for a rich set of scalar types (int32, int64, decimal, date, etc.) plus containers (object a.k.a. a map, and array) as they might appear in a byte stream. There is no "native" string form of BSON; it is a byte[] spec.
- **[bulma](https://github.com/jgthms/bulma)** - Bulma is a CSS framework. As such, the sole output is a single CSS file. Bulma can be considered "environment agnostic": it's just the style layer on top of the logic.
- [bootstrap](https://github.com/twbs/bootstrap) - The most popular HTML, CSS, and JavaScript framework for developing responsive, mobile first projects on the web.


# C
- **[codetiming](https://github.com/realpython/codetiming)** - A flexible, customizable timer for your Python code
- **[celery](https://github.com/celery/celery)** - Task queues are used as a mechanism to distribute work across threads or machines.
- **[CFFI](https://cffi.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)** - C Foreign Function Interface for Python. Interact with almost any C code from Python, based on C-like declarations that you can often copy-paste from header files or documentation.
- **[cookiecutter](https://github.com/cookiecutter/cookiecutter)** - A command-line utility that creates projects from cookiecutters (project templates), e.g. creating a Python package project from a Python package project template.
- **[cookiecutter-django](https://github.com/cookiecutter/cookiecutter-django)** - Cookiecutter Django is a framework for jumpstarting production-ready Django projects quickly.
- ** [django-allauth](https://github.com/pennersr/django-allauth)** - Integrated set of Django applications addressing authentication, registration, account management as well as 3rd party (social) account authentication.
- **[ConfigArgParse](https://github.com/bw2/ConfigArgParse)** - Python's command line parsing modules such as argparse have very limited support for config files and environment variables, so this module extends argparse to add these features.
- [coveragepy](https://github.com/nedbat/coveragepy) - Coverage.py measures code coverage, typically during test execution. It uses the code analysis tools and tracing hooks provided in the Python standard library to determine which lines are executable, and which have been executed.


# D
- **[django](https://github.com/django/django)** - Django is a high-level Python web framework that encourages rapid development and clean, pragmatic design. Thanks for checking it out.
-[ **django-environ](https://github.com/joke2k/django-environ)** - django-environ is the Python package that allows you to use Twelve-factor methodology to configure your Django application with environment variables.
- **[django-anymail](https://github.com/anymail/django-anymail)** - Django email backends and webhooks for Amazon SES, Mailgun, Mailjet, Postmark, Postal, SendGrid, Sendinblue, SparkPost and more
- **[docker-compose](https://github.com/docker/compose)** - Docker Compose is a tool for running multi-container applications on Docker defined using the Compose file format.
- **[django-celery-beat](https://github.com/celery/django-celery-beat)** - Celery Periodic Tasks backed by the Django ORM. The periodic tasks can be managed from the Django Admin interface, where you can create, edit and delete periodic tasks and how often they should run.
- **[direnv](https://github.com/direnv/direnv)** - direnv is an extension for your shell. It augments existing shells with a new feature that can load and unload environment variables depending on the current directory.

# E
- [eventlet](http://eventlet.net/) - Eventlet is a concurrent networking library for Python that allows you to change how you run your code, not how you write it. https://github.com/eventlet/eventlet
- **[Elasticsearch](https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch)** - Elasticsearch is the distributed, RESTful search and analytics engine at the heart of the Elastic Stack. You can use Elasticsearch to store, search, and manage data for: Logs, Metrics, A search backend, Application monitoring, 
Endpoint security

# F
- **[flask-caching](https://github.m/pallets-eco/flask-caching)** - A fork of the Flask-cache extension which adds easy cache support to Flask.
- **[flask](https://github.com/pallets/flask)** - Flask is a lightweight WSGI web application framework. It is designed to make getting started quick and easy, with the ability to scale up to complex applications. It began as a simple wrapper around Werkzeug and Jinja and has become one of the most popular Python web application frameworks.



# G
- **[GridFS](https://github.com/mongodb/specifications/blob/master/source/gridfs/gridfs-spec.rst/)** - GridFS is a convention drivers use to store and retrieve BSON binary data (type “\x05”) that exceeds MongoDB’s BSON-document size limit of 16 MiB. When this data, called a user file, is written to the system, GridFS divides the file into chunks that are stored as distinct documents in a chunks collection. To retrieve a stored file, GridFS locates and returns all of its component chunks. Internally, GridFS creates a files collection document for each stored file. Files collection documents hold information about stored files, and they are stored in a files collection.
- **[gevent](http://www.gevent.org/)** - gevent is a coroutine -based Python networking library that uses greenlet to provide a high-level synchronous API on top of the libev or libuv event loop. https://github.com/gevent/gevent
- **[greenlet](https://greenlet.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)** - greenlets are lightweight coroutines for in-process sequential concurrent programming. greenlets can be used on their own, but they are frequently used with frameworks such as gevent to provide higher-level abstractions and asynchronous I/O. https://github.com/python-greenlet/greenlet
- **[GitHub Search API](https://docs.github.com/en/rest/search)** - The Search API helps you search for the specific item you want to find. For example, you can find a user or a specific file in a repository.
- **[GitHub CLI](https://github.com/cli/cli)** - gh is GitHub on the command line. It brings pull requests, issues, and other GitHub concepts to the terminal next to where you are already working with git and your code.


# H

# I

# J
- **[JSON](https://www.json.org/json-en.html)** - JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) is a lightweight data-interchange format. It is easy for humans to read and write.

# K

# L
- **[litecli](https://github.com/dbcli/litecli)** - A command-line client for SQLite databases that has auto-completion and syntax highlighting.
- **[librabbitmq](https://github.com/celery/librabbitmq)** - Python AMQP Client using the rabbitmq-c library. Python bindings to the RabbitMQ C-library rabbitmq-c. Supported by Kombu and Celery.
  Python bindings to the RabbitMQ C-library rabbitmq-c. Supported by Kombu and Celery.
- [LRU cache](https://www.educative.io/m/implement-least-recently-used-cache) - Least Recently Used (LRU) is a common caching strategy. It defines the policy to evict elements from the cache to make room for new elements when the cache is full, meaning it discards the least recently used items first.

# M
- **[mongita](https://github.com/scottrogowski/mongita)** - Mongita is a lightweight embedded document database that implements a commonly-used subset of the MongoDB/PyMongo interface. Mongita differs from MongoDB in that instead of being a server, Mongita is a self-contained Python library. Mongita can be configured to store its documents either on disk or in memory.
- **[mycli](https://github.com/dbcli/mycli)** - A command line client for MySQL that can do auto-completion and syntax highlighting.
- **[mongo-express](https://github.com/mongo-express/mongo-express)** - Web-based MongoDB admin interface written with Node.js, Express and Bootstrap3
- **[Memcached](https://github.com/memcached/memcached)** - Memcached is a high performance multithreaded event-based key/value cache store intended to be used in a distributed system.
- **[MongoDB](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo)** - MongoDB is a source-available cross-platform document-oriented database program. Classified as a NoSQL database program, MongoDB uses JSON-like documents with optional schemas.

# N

# O
- [optparse](https://docs.python.org/3/library/optparse.html) - optparse is a more convenient, flexible, and powerful library for parsing command-line options than the old getopt module. 



# P
- **[pipreqs](https://github.com/bndr/pipreqs)** - Pip requirements.txt generator based on imports in project.
- **[pipdeptree](https://github.com/tox-dev/pipdeptree)** - is a command line utility for displaying the installed python packages in form of a dependency tree.
- **[PhantomJS](https://github.com/ariya/phantomjs)** - PhantomJS is a headless Webkit, which has a number of uses. In this example, we’ll be using it, in conjunction with Selenium WebDriver, for conducting basic system tests directly from the command line. Since PhantomJS eliminates the need for a graphical browser, tests run much faster.
- **[pymongo](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo-python-driver)** - The PyMongo distribution contains tools for interacting with MongoDB database from Python. The bson package is an implementation of the BSON format for Python. The pymongo package is a native Python driver for MongoDB. The gridfs package is a gridfs implementation on top of pymongo. PyMongo supports MongoDB 3.6, 4.0, 4.2, 4.4, 5.0, and 6.0.
- **[python-dotenv](https://github.com/theskumar/python-dotenv)** - Python-dotenv reads key-value pairs from a .env file and can set them as environment variables. It helps in the development of applications following the 12-factor principles. By default, load_dotenv doesn't override existing environment variables.
- **[python-humanfriendly](https://github.com/xolox/python-humanfriendly)** - humanfriendly: Human friendly input/output in Python
- **[Pyramid](https://github.com/Pylons/pyramid)** - Pyramid is a small, fast, down-to-earth, open source Python web framework. It makes real-world web application development and deployment more fun, more predictable, and more productive.
- **[Pylons](https://github.com/Pylons/deform)** - Deform is a Python form library for generating HTML forms on the server side. Date and time picking widgets, rich text editors, forms with dynamically added and removed items and a few other complex use cases are supported out of the box. Deform integrates with the Pyramid web framework and several other web frameworks. Deform comes with Chameleon templates and Bootstrap 3 styling.
- **[pythonanywhere](https://www.pythonanywhere.com/)** - Just write your application. No need to configure or maintain a web server — everything is set up and ready to go.
- **[pre-commit](https://github.com/pre-commit/pre-commit)** - A framework for managing and maintaining multi-language pre-commit hooks.
- **[patch-env](https://github.com/caricalabs/patch-env)** - patch_env - Patch os.environ with dynamic values when the interpreter starts
- **[python-progressbar](https://github.com/NiltonVolpato/python-progressbar)** - A text progress bar is typically used to display the progress of a long running operation, providing a visual cue that processing is underway.
- **[pandas](https://github.com/pandas-dev/pandas)** - pandas: powerful Python data analysis toolkit
- **[psycopg2](https://github.com/psycopg/psycopg2)** - Psycopg is the most popular PostgreSQL database adapter for the Python programming language. Its main features are the complete implementation of the Python DB API 2.0
- **[pylama](https://github.com/klen/pylama)** - Code audit tool for Python. Pylama wraps these tools: pycodestyle, pydocstyle, PyFlakes, Mccabe, Pylint, Radon, eradicate, Mypy, Vulture
- **[pytest](https://github.com/pytest-dev/pytest)** - The pytest framework makes it easy to write small tests, yet scales to support complex functional testing for applications and libraries.
- **[pytest-aiohttp](https://github.com/aio-libs/pytest-aiohttp)** - pytest plugin for aiohttp support. The library provides useful fixtures for creation test aiohttp server and client.
- **[pytest-asyncio](https://github.com/pytest-dev/pytest-asyncio)** - pytest-asyncio is a pytest plugin. It facilitates testing of code that uses the asyncio library.
- **[pytest-cov](https://github.com/pytest-dev/pytest-cov)** - This plugin produces coverage reports. Compared to just using coverage run this plugin does some extras.


# Q

# R
- [**redis**](https://github.com/redis/redis) - Redis is often referred to as a data structures server. What this means is that Redis provides access to mutable data structures via a set of commands, which are sent using a server-client model with TCP sockets and a simple protocol. So different processes can query and modify the same data structures in a shared way. [Redis data types](https://redis.io/docs/).
- **[rabbitmq](https://github.com/rabbitmq)** - RabbitMQ is a feature rich, multi-protocol messaging and streaming broker. It supports: AMQP 0-9-1
AMQP 1.0, RabbitMQ Stream Protocol, MQTT 3.1.1, STOMP 1.0 through 1.2.
- **[rabbitmq](https://github.com/jbg/rabbitmq)** - Python bindings to librabbitmq using CFFI.


# S
- **[spynner](https://github.com/makinacorpus/spynner)** - Spynner is a stateful programmatic web browser module for Python. It is based upon PyQT and WebKit. It supports Javascript, AJAX, and every other technology that !WebKit is able to handle (Flash, SVG, ...). Spynner takes advantage of JQuery. a powerful Javascript library that makes the interaction with pages and event simulation really easy. Using Spynner you would able to simulate a web browser with no GUI (though a browsing window can be opened for debugging purposes), so it may be used to implement crawlers or acceptance testing tools.
- **[systemd](https://github.com/systemd/systemd)** - systemd is a suite of basic building blocks for a Linux system. It provides a system and service manager that runs as PID 1 and starts the rest of the system. systemd provides aggressive parallelization capabilities, uses socket and D-Bus activation for starting services, offers on-demand starting of daemons, keeps track of processes using Linux control groups, maintains mount and automount points, and implements an elaborate transactional dependency-based service control logic. systemd supports SysV and LSB init scripts and works as a replacement for sysvinit.
- **[supervisor](https://github.com/Supervisor/supervisor)** - Supervisor is a client/server system that allows its users to control a number of processes on UNIX-like operating systems. Supervisor is intended to work on Python 3 version 3.4 or later and on Python 2 version 2.7.
- **[sqlalchemy](https://github.com/sqlalchemy/sqlalchemy)** - SQLAlchemy is the Python SQL toolkit and Object Relational Mapper that gives application developers the full power and flexibility of SQL. SQLAlchemy provides a full suite of well known enterprise-level persistence patterns, designed for efficient and high-performing database access, adapted into a simple and Pythonic domain language.
- **[sentry](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry)** - Sentry is a developer-first error tracking and performance monitoring platform that helps developers see what actually matters, solve quicker, and learn continuously about their applications.
- **[sqlalchemy-utils](https://github.com/kvesteri/sqlalchemy-utils)** - Various utility functions, new data types and helpers for SQLAlchemy.


# T
- **[tensorflow](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow)** - TensorFlow is an end-to-end open source platform for machine learning. TensorFlow was originally developed by researchers and engineers working on the Google Brain team within Google's Machine Intelligence Research organization to conduct machine learning and deep neural networks research.
- **[Tornado](https://github.com/tornadoweb/tornado/tree/stable)** - Tornado is a Python web framework and asynchronous networking library, originally developed at FriendFeed. By using non-blocking network I/O, Tornado can scale to tens of thousands of open connections, making it ideal for long polling, WebSockets, and other applications that require a long-lived connection to each user.
- [**12factorAPP**](https://12factor.net/) - I. Codebase   II. Dependencies   III. Config IV. Backing services  V. Build, release, run  VI. Processes  VII. Port binding  VIII. Concurrency IX. Disposability
  X. Dev/prod parity   XI. Logs   XII. Admin processes

# U

# V

# W
- **[webbrowser](https://docs.python.org/3/library/webbrowser.html#module-webbrowser)** - module provides a high-level interface to allow displaying web-based documents to users. Under most circumstances, simply calling the open() function from this module will do the right thing.
- **[Webkit](https://webkit.org/)** - WebKit is the web browser engine used by Safari, Mail, App Store, and many other apps on macOS, iOS, and Linux.
- **[web2py](https://github.com/web2py/web2py)** - web2py is a free open source full-stack framework for rapid development of fast, scalable, secure and portable database-driven web-based applications.

# X

# Y
- **[yolk](https://github.com/cakebread/yolk)** - Command-line tool for querying PyPI and Python packages installed on your system
- **[yolk3k](https://github.com/myint/yolk)**: yolk3k is a fork of the original yolk. yolk3k add Python 3 support (while maintaining Python 2 support). It also adds additional features.

# Z
